====

ExCeSs.presents you

---------------------------------
The Boulder Dash Construction Kit
Original.Documentation
---------------------------------

Music.by DraxOVibrants
Logo by Sush/ExCeSs
Doxx typed by St0rmfr0nt/ExCeSs


Press Space to Start reading...


The Construction Kit Documantation is
from the Original c64 Diskette version,
Original provided by myself.

Rockford's the name, and underground
mining's the game!..

Can you guide rockford through the 16
different caves, collecting diamonds and
avoiding failing boulders, exploding
fireflies and and other underground
hazards?

not only does this pack contain the
latest boulder dash game. but also an
amazing construction kit that alloows
you to design and play your very own
caves and puzzles. so now, there is no
limit to the fun you can have!

"there have been pale imitations - this
is the original and best."

INSTRUCTIONS
------------

THE.GAME:
the objject of boulder dash is to search
through caves and collect the indicated
number oof diamonds in the time limit.@@
the way to solve the caves is usually
very simple, but not on the first
apparent. please read the description of
the game elementts in the BCONSTRUCTION.
KITB.TO.UNDERSTAND.MORE.ABOUT.THE.
DIFFERENT.ASPECTS OF.THE.GAMEN.

PLAYING.THE.GAME

once the game sectionhas finished
loading you will be asked for a file
name. type BGAME1B (this is a set of 16
pre-defined caves) or the name of the
game you have created using the kit..

you can move your character, rockford,

you can then start the cave again.
you are awarded an extra life every 500
points.

THE.CONSTRUCTION.KIT..

by using this part of the program you
can create your own boulder dash caaves
and intermissions. you can also make a
complete game by using up to 64 screens
in any order of caves and intermissions.
these designs can be used with the
boulder dash iv game.....

on the atari st the control of the edit
screen is by mouse. clicking the right
button or pressing.ESCape leaves the
menu that you are currently in. on the
amiga and c64 use the cursor keys and
space.


STARTING

when editing for the first time you will
be presented with a menu that gives you
the choice of editing a current cave or
intermission or creating a new one....
use the mouse or keys to move the
pointer on the menu and click on the
desired option.

along the top or side of the screen you
will see a number of icons. reading from
left to right their functions are
described below (to select an icon press
the left mouse button, on amiga and c64
just press fire in port 2)

OBJECTS

BOULDER: the rocks will fall if
unsupported and can be pushed if there
are no objects in front of it. when
selected place the game screen by moving
the mouse (or joystick)@and press left
button (or fire for c64 and amiga).

DIAMONDZ.in every cave a certain number
of diamonds need to be collected to win
and to leave the cave.

ENCHANTED.WALLZ looks like any other
wall exept when hit by an object it will
"mill" for a certain time. during this
time it will turn boulders into diamonds
and vice versa.

WALLZ.a regaular wall used to build
spaces and paths. it can't be crossed by
can be destroyed by explosions.

TITANIUM.WALLZ this wall is
indestructible

GROWING.WALLZ if there are no obstacles
next to it, this wall will grow into any
free space....

EXTRA.ROCKFORDZ these won't move but you
must protect them from beeing destroyed
by boulders ect.

DIRTZ.used as a filler. stops all
objects exept rockford!

FIREFLIESZ.they explode on contact
killing rockford. they are destroyed by
dropping boulders on them or by contact
with amoeba.

BUTTERFLIESZ they behave as above except
they produce diamonds when they explode.

AMOEBAZ.this grows through dirt and
unless confined (when it turn into
diamonds) will eventually turn into
boulders.

SLIME
blocks rocks and diamonds to pas through....

HIDDEN.EXIT.DOORZ.this door looks like
the titanium all and is obviously
difficult to find...

EXIT.DOORZ.this exit will be revealed as
soon as the required number of diamonds
have been collected...


THE COMMANDSZ

LINE.MODEZ.(press l) this draws a row of
the current icon selected. click for the
start position and click again for the
end position..

RANDOMZ.selecting the dice icon will
place 20 of the selected objects on the
game screen randomly..

ERASERZ.(press e) this selects an empty
space which can be used to delete
misplaced objects.

CLOCKZ.(press v) this allows the timing
and counters to be altered

COLOURSZ.(press c) this changes the
colours. in the colour menu select the
colour to change and press the button.
the r g b indicators can be changed by
using the mouse (on amiga and c64 the
joystick). press the left button to
select a new colour (with joystick just
press fire)

TESTZ.(press t) this tests the screen
you are editing. use the joystick to
control rockford. you have one life
only

MAIN.MENUEZ.(press m) this selects the
main menue described below
========================================
NEW.SCREENZ.(press n) this selects new
screen and clears the cave/intermission=
you are working on

OTHER.FUNCTIONS.ACCESSED.BY.KEYS.ONLY.
AREZ

F=full screen (view the whole playing
area)
S=sound on/off

NOTEZ.on the atari st pressing HOI swaps
in between scolling play area and non-
scolling play area. on the commodore 64
and amiga to view the different areas of
the play screen, select full screen (FI
and then move the cursor to the new
area.

MAIN.MENUZ
using the main menu=you can set up the
cave/intermission parameters, load, save
restart a cave, access the disk commands
and the game options.

GAME.OPTIONSZ=this allows the player to
link together different caves and
intermissions. use the mouse or keys to
select the caves and intermissions.
after select y/n option to decide
whether the player can access that cave
from the main game. you can then save
your sequence to disk.

NOTEZ.PLEASE.USE.A.SEPERATE.DISK.TO.SAVE
YOUR.CAVES.AND.SEQUENCESN

A.NOTE.ABOUT.CAVES.AND.INTERMISSIONSZ
a standard bould dash "game" consists of
a total of 16 caves and 4 intermissions.
the caves are made up of 4 tv screens of
maze, ect. and this is where the player
is rewarded with a "bonus game", the
intermission. this is just a single
screen where he/she can score extra
points or lives. obviously using this
kit, one can alter the number of caves
and intermissions to any number of
sequence.